All right now we understand how we built all this stuff here how focus on below the line items here.
And so this tab here is really simplest just images and text.
Again keep the images as small as you can.
OK.
Especially the ones like these where you don't have to zoom and keep the resolution low otherwise it'll
make the file size massive OK and secure this file.
Same thing as text settings.
This was more complicated.
So this one here what we're doing is a couple of things what we're putting just a ton of data from a
massive array an array is just kind of a big sort of database thing.
And we're doing it based on a few things.
Number one is country Number two is currency.
And then here you just type in your nickname it says your name.
And I did that.
Over here I can say congratulations you've finished this much of the course that sort of thing and if
you want you can just enter toll progress message in here.
Copy and paste it there.
It'll show you the logic behind that.
Basically the bottom line is it just looks at what percent of the cost you're done.
And it put up a custom message like congratulations John or whatever whatever your name is which you
put here.
And so the countries here these two are pulled from a list and I'll show you how he did that similar
ratio before.
So if you go to data and then you go to a data validation you just do a list and then it grabs down
here these countries here.
I'll get back to plaques in a minute.
And then what you do is the same thing with the currency.
It's actually getting from another list.
So if you go to data validation here it pulls it from right beside.
These are mutually exclusive.
And each of these two looks OK.
All right.
And that's where I pull the data from and that's it.
And then what I did was I basically I pulled in this rate here based on whatever currency you have.
And then I put a hyperlink here in case you wanted to change what the Canadian dollar rate is right
now.
And it's just using a V Look-Up which is like a database and kind of like how much before.
OK.
And then here is just a button or an image you know how to do that or.
And then here you'll notice.
Like I kind of hit some of these if if it was a country right didn't have all the data.
What I did was it was you wouldn't even know it but it would appear like a blank like that.
And then here in the city black as well.
And so this cell here I named it.
And this still here is called on online resources in your country and the reason I named it was because
I referred to it in one of the links.
I can't remember where but I think that maybe in here the first one and I just said equals on my resources
in your country.
If it's I have to go there right now.
Scollard yet.
OK.
See online resources in your country.
Hold on a second.
Yeah here you go.
So here there's just logic behind this here.
It's saying the Canada government should figure out a way to say Canadian.
That's right.
And then what I did was I just there's a formula here I threw in basically saying if that cell that
we looked at on that previous tap wasn't blank then do something otherwise do nothing.
And that and that's basically it.
So it grabbed the data and threw it in here.
And there's a bunch of other stuff here that's thrown at him when ever see seen and it's because attaching
a
a field that you named to something else.
So it's really cool that we go over here to show you this is really powerful.
There's people People.com strings so I could say equals
I can say equals open Hi there and then I can say your name or some are your country like this.
And if your country is filled up with something you will say hi there Canada.
I think in this case.
Hi there Canada.
So what you got to do though is you've got to make sure you put a space here because it's not smart
enough to tell you.
And this is just telling Excel hey get another field and they can attach something else to it as well.
So I want to do something else and add.
I don't know why I'm not that creative.
And then we'll do another one your end and we use Windows and you'll see a drop down based on what you've
entered and which is awesome doesn't always work on Mac.
I think Windows is a lot better when it comes to excel because you know Microsoft makes makes that so
your country is true your currency Hi there Canada and then the high Canadian dollar.
There we go.
Good Stoller's not dollars dollars.
So we said good.
OK.
That's a strength.
All right.
Now let's go back to settings and now you understand strings and you can just do if then statements
as well.
Well by saying if something is empty then do this how do see that.
And the way you say something is empty is you make equal to just two quotes together.
And you'll see a bunch of that too.
All right.
So here this is saying please click the links below.
Blah blah blah oh just text 3 seconds.
Let me get back Saro here if err on the outside just in case there's an error right which happens sometimes
with these cells.
I assume he'll say what the hell man by country national up here.
Should get the country and stuff.
OK.
So if it looks that up there it's basically saying if that field is full do this otherwise do something
else and something else is there basically saying show nothing.
Right.
So those quotes.
OK.
Otherwise it says your country the Canada government provides helpful resources and that throws in the
hyperlink as well cap and hyperlinks a pretty cool function if you just go to another field and type
in equals hyperlink open brackets you'll see what the fields are.
Within that there's the hyperlink and then the friendly name straitly click equals hyperlink and then
here you ignore that the font that the link location and the friendly name the friendly name is you
know high there and the link is HTP whatever you can.
All right.
And so all this stuff here it's pulling this year from a massive massive array and I called that array
all country data so I'll show you.
And we know from the course that we can always take one of these items and then paste it over here to
find that item.
And these are all reserved words.
OK.
So this here all country is a massive block of data.
So here and all I did was I basically I had a couple of guys a year ago I had a guy actually enter a
lot of information here and then really helped out now as well.
He's been great.
So basically it pulls off of all of these cells here it looks up the top here and pulls it down.
And this is getting out there but explanation wise.
But in order to tell the top row and the array what this data is and this wasn't the smartest way to
do it but I had tried try right click here sorry.
I said that I actually created this row arrays can and all this doing is it remembers that name.
And so here it's just it it kind of translates it for me it's easier for me to solve this way so call
one is the country name.
And then I added here FDIC equivalent name.
And this was just for another course I had a deposit insurance and this stuff all the data here actually
got from my complete personal finance course I believe.
But a year ago and I've I'm building on this slowly so this I use this engine here like the Unreal Engine
but it's an engine my courses are used for crypto of course from mothers.
OK.
So I think we're basically done with settings.
I knew it through.
I know I threw a lot at you to just kind of go through it and delete certain cells.
And then when you look at that formulas build on slowly like I showed you in the last lecture like just
throw one book at one level.
Sorry it's late night for me.
Build a break down these these formulas by just looking at one little statement each.
OK so what you do is this.
So for this one here find the innermost brackets and then delete everything else and build out from
that and play around the numbers well.
So this year all these are named fields and you know how to name fields.
And I've got a ton of them.
And what was really convenient was that the fact that all these names fields existed I created all of
them because what I can do is I could have you Jump's them automatically within the course which I thought
was pretty cool.
Yeah.
So that is basically this.
And you can go and look at that huge array called all country data belove if you care now.
When it came to and the reason I said don't add any rolls columns earlier in the course.
See right there because this could really get messed up.
You do it.
But it should be fine Excel Spahr enough to link to the right cells and stuff just in case you know
I wasn't sure.
So you know.
But that warning out there.
So I'm going to try to remember to see how I did this entire flag thing now.
So we'll run the settings page that's why that the colors green there.
So we just pulled a flag here and I think I'd name it as well.
OK.
It's coming.
I think I call it flag pick.
Come on.
I got you.
So I made it equal the flag pick OK.
And that's not a reserve word I created that.
And then what you do is you can actually go to formulas define name and please you if you have Windows
as well use Windows for the stuff because Windows makes it so much easier to delete multiple ones like
this on a Mac.
You've got to each one individually.
OK.
So I'm going to go down to flight deck.
I assure you I have made all these Dominika.
So I had a flag pick here.
So all I did here was I named this.
You have to do it in here.
You can't do it up there like you do here.
So that and then what you do is I basically named it here.
And the bottom line is that I said look at the country that was selected that dropped that box.
Then after you look at the country look at the index which means the very first column here and whatever's
in that box throw it there.
And so it didn't work that well here on my computer.
Whenever about I'm sure it worked better when you were working there once except for the teachers in
this case.
And that's all I did.
So you play around that and it will make much more sense I promise you.
It is a pain the neck close to can always flex and I learned a lot there's a lot of countries you know
existed that's how ignorant I am.
OK.
That is done there.
And I think I've got everything here showed Fauria up up up up up up up it's OK.
And then what I want to do is I want to show you that on every single tattoo I went to what I did was
this I would make the link here go to the top left most cell and I did that in case you were way way
down on a page and you got lost and came back when you're still way lost down there.
So I was I made it here OK so I called this little cell here I named it.
I clicked on here and then I named it this go to stuff I processor's it puts in the top.
And then what happens is when somebody clicks on this.
So say we're over here and you're about to click on this the code is this all it does it points to that
that name rage.
Go to Bob over there.
That's it.
And it's smart enough to remember it's right there.
And then I didn't screen tap here for each of them.
And we're interested in that.
Good.
Anything else here to explain to you.
I think I understand all this stuff.
It's a name.
Oh.
The naming convention came in.
Really helpful man when I was doing the financial stuff.
Really really helpful especially when when when I want to highlight certain areas to you know to copy
and paste.
Right.
So I think that was over here on the outputs here on all issues it was on the open for the whole thing.
So if we go here you'll notice that I actually quite often I would make you paste in stuff here from
the Word documents and all I did was I highlighted a bunch of cells and then I need them up here.
That's it.
And that's how it linked to there and then by accident I discovered rufous going to work actually on
this version.
It worked beautifully when I was showing you the financial section on Windows version of Excel.
The C works here.
I don't think it will be Microsoft always favors or operating system even now.
That's OK.
Back in oh here it is good.
It works sort of not as good but it was.
There you go.
OK.
That's dope.
Look at that.
How cool is that.
So amazing.
So if you type that in.
Equals final BPB or Iara.
That stuff will come up here.
OK.
Good.
And then I think that's basically I don't know if there's much else to show you.
Mean see here
yeah you know how to name rows and cells.
And it came in really handy.
I would do it.
I had no idea where this was from year one revenue unless I named it financials input first year revenue
you know.
So and then you can hit the command open square breaker close square bracket and jump back there.
Right.
So if I do this here it would jump there eventually.
Yeah.
So and So as you can see the arrow back and forth or up and down until it actually shows up there you
are right there.
Yes a total revenue year once you're are here which I butcher by typing that that close or open parenthesis
that's their financials.
First year revenue.
OK.
So you know I torche that but.
But you got the idea pulled it directly from there.
And then the spark lines.
I think I just went to insert charts spark lines and then what else do we have here.
Yeah that's basically it.
And then grouping on groping you know you highlight them then go to data group for data on group that's
it.
And then up up up up up up.
I think that's it.
This was a best to make this page here but I enjoy it it's fun.
I like a challenge.
All right.
And we'll see what else I have.
I think I've showed you everything.
That's a lot of if then statements before I showed stuff so here I referred to this here so if the text
here is please click get out and then do nothing otherwise do something else.
That's it.
Inputs for the first page.
Oh this was fun here.
So here was right here.
I named this here cover page selected and I made it equal the page selected later.
So if you select the cover page I don't go to than I told you which file to download and I'll show you
how.
So if you go here
OK here and you can read that right.
Get hundred and then hear what I did was I basically said if cover page whatever is equal to that long
string please enter stuff that do this I that.
So here see if cover page flexibles please click me.
I know then something's going to happen.
Otherwise it's pretty long here but it's basically saying whatever you selected you added in a number
right from an array.
So I'll show you the cover page.
It actually is kind of neat.
So all I did was whatever cover page you select.
I just basically made it more intelligent like a name.
So if you if you picked covered table 1 OK it's kind of hard to see then this is going to come out.
Business Plan template which should tell you which one to download.
And then if you just you could just go right to my Squarespace Web site.
So if you click here this go to it to get the template directly here.
And then I got a credit really with this you did a great job at this.
So that's that.
And then I think that that might be it.
So we see if there's any deals to show you I think I've showed you everything pretty much.
See here.
I mean there's probably some advanced formulas that that I put it.
Oh OK.
OK.
And the next lecture I'll continue with the checkboxes and a couple other minor things which are which
are a lot of fun to make.
Thanks.